## Codes for a lower limb locomotion mode recognition method based on sEMG (Ref.: BSPC-D-24-08737-R1, Under Review).
## Abstract:
Nowadays, research on lower limb Locomotion Mode Recognition (LMR) based on Surface Electromyography (sEMG) and deep learning is attracting increasing attention, especially in fields such as sports rehabilitation and exoskeletons. Typically, directly measured sEMG signals are prone to various noise interferences that severely affect the recognition performance, whereas existing methods are insufficient to effectively handle noise within the spectrum. Additionally, current studies pay insufficient attention to the recognition performance of models in cross-subject scenarios. Therefore, this study proposes a novel cross-subject LMR method. Specifically, a sEMG denoising framework based on mode decomposition and signal reconstruction is designed to adaptively identify and eliminate noise hidden within its spectrum. Several generic deep learning models are constructed to achieve end-to-end LMR using denoised signals, including typical CNN, serial CNN-RNNs, and parallel CNN-Transformer. On this basis, a transfer learning technique called weight-decomposed low-rank adaptation is integrated to maximize the applicability of the model in cross-subject scenarios with minimal increase in inference cost. A multi-metric evaluation framework is established to systematically analyze the proposed method from various aspects such as denoising effect, model performance, and time cost. Effectiveness is verified using a benchmark dataset of lower limb motions with ten healthy subjects, and a custom dataset including healthy individuals and stroke patients. Experimental results indicate that the proposed method outperforms existing state-of-the-art methods across multiple recognition tasks in both types of individuals, showing promising potential in the development of human-robot coordinated rehabilitation exoskeletons.
## Keywords: 
Surface electromyography; Locomotion mode recognition; Cross-subject prediction; Bioelectrical signal denoising; Deep learning; Transfer learning.
## Install: 
Use "Install.ipynb" to create the environment and dependencies, or install the required dependencies using "pip install requirements.txt".
## Notes:
1. The "models" folder includes various deep learning models, as well as some shallow machine learning models for comparison.
2. The "preProcessing" folder includes the raw dataset used, the various preprocessing methods proposed, and the corresponding sample sets.
3. The "trainTest" folder includes multiple model training and testing techniques for deep learning and shallow machine learning models, as well as cases of training and testing using different models in both intra-subject and inter-subject scenarios.
4. The "utils" folder includes some commonly used functions related to data preprocessing and feature extraction, visualization and complexity calculation of deep learning models, and some commonly used parameter settings.